If you really want to hear about it, the first thing you'll probably want to know is 
where I was born, an what my lousy childhood was like, and how my parents were 
occupied and all before they had me, and all that David Copperfield kind of crap, but I 
don't feel like going into it, if you want to know the truth. In the first place, that stuff 
bores me, and in the second place, my parents would have about two hemorrhages apiece 
if I told anything pretty personal about them. They're quite touchy about anything like 
that, especially my father. They're nice and all--I'm not saying that--but they're also 
touchy as hell. Besides, I'm not going to tell you my whole goddam autobiography or 
anything. I'll just tell you about this madman stuff that happened to me around last 
Christmas just before I got pretty run-down and had to come out here and take it easy. I 
mean that's all I told D.B. about, and he's my brother and all. He's in Hollywood. That 
isn't too far from this crumby place, and he comes over and visits me practically every 
week end. He's going to drive me home when I go home next month maybe. He just got a 
Jaguar. One of those little English jobs that can do around two hundred miles an hour. It 
cost him damn near four thousand bucks. He's got a lot of dough, now. He didn't use to. 
He used to be just a regular writer, when he was home. He wrote this terrific book of 
short stories, The Secret Goldfish, in case you never heard of him. The best one in it was 
"The Secret Goldfish." It was about this little kid that wouldn't let anybody look at his 
goldfish because he'd bought it with his own money. It killed me. Now he's out in 
Hollywood, D.B., being a prostitute. If there's one thing I hate, it's the movies. Don't even 
mention them to me. 
Where I want to start telling is the day I left Pencey Prep. Pencey Prep is this 
school that's in Agerstown, Pennsylvania. You probably heard of it. You've probably seen 
the ads, anyway. They advertise in about a thousand magazines, always showing some 
hotshot guy on a horse jumping over a fence. Like as if all you ever did at Pencey was 
play polo all the time. I never even once saw a horse anywhere near the place. And 
underneath the guy on the horse's picture, it always says: "Since 1888 we have been 
molding boys into splendid, clear-thinking young men." Strictly for the birds. They don't 
do any damn more molding at Pencey than they do at any other school. And I didn't know 
anybody there that was splendid and clear-thinking and all. Maybe two guys. If that 
many. And they probably came to Pencey that way. 
Anyway, it was the Saturday of the football game with Saxon Hall. The game 
with Saxon Hall was supposed to be a very big deal around Pencey. It was the last game 
of the year, and you were supposed to commit suicide or something if old Pencey didn't 
win. I remember around three o'clock that afternoon I was standing way the hell up on 
top of Thomsen Hill, right next to this crazy cannon that was in the Revolutionary War 
and all. You could see the whole field from there, and you could see the two teams 
bashing each other all over the place. You couldn't see the grandstand too hot, but you 
could hear them all yelling, deep and terrific on the Pencey side, because practically the 
whole school except me was there, and scrawny and faggy on the Saxon Hall side, 
because the visiting team hardly ever brought many people with them. 
 There were never many girls at all at the football games. Only seniors were 
allowed to bring girls with them. It was a terrible school, no matter how you looked at it. 
I like to be somewhere at least where you can see a few girls around once in a while, even 
if they're only scratching their arms or blowing their noses or even just giggling or 
something. Old Selma Thurmer--she was the headmaster's daughter--showed up at the 
games quite often, but she wasn't exactly the type that drove you mad with desire. She 
was a pretty nice girl, though. I sat next to her once in the bus from Agerstown and we 
sort of struck up a conversation. I liked her. She had a big nose and her nails were all 
bitten down and bleedy-looking and she had on those damn falsies that point all over the 
place, but you felt sort of sorry for her. What I liked about her, she didn't give you a lot of 
horse manure about what a great guy her father was. She probably knew what a phony 
slob he was. 
 The reason I was standing way up on Thomsen Hill, instead of down at the game, 
was because I'd just got back from New York with the fencing team. I was the goddam 
manager of the fencing team. Very big deal. We'd gone in to New York that morning for 
this fencing meet with McBurney School. Only, we didn't have the meet. I left all the 
foils and equipment and stuff on the goddam subway. It wasn't all my fault. I had to keep 
getting up to look at this map, so we'd know where to get off. So we got back to Pencey 
around two-thirty instead of around dinnertime. The whole team ostracized me the whole 
way back on the train. It was pretty funny, in a way. 
 The other reason I wasn't down at the game was because I was on my way to say 
good-by to old Spencer, my history teacher. He had the grippe, and I figured I probably 
wouldn't see him again till Christmas vacation started. He wrote me this note saying he 
wanted to see me before I went home. He knew I wasn't coming back to Pencey. 
 I forgot to tell you about that. They kicked me out. I wasn't supposed to come 
back after Christmas vacation on account of I was flunking four subjects and not applying 
myself and all. They gave me frequent warning to start applying myself--especially 
around midterms, when my parents came up for a conference with old Thurmer--but I 
didn't do it. So I got the ax. They give guys the ax quite frequently at Pencey. It has a 
very good academic rating, Pencey. It really does. 
 Anyway, it was December and all, and it was cold as a witch's teat, especially on 
top of that stupid hill. I only had on my reversible and no gloves or anything. The week 
before that, somebody'd stolen my camel's-hair coat right out of my room, with my furlined gloves right in the pocket and all. Pencey was full of crooks. Quite a few guys came 
from these very wealthy families, but it was full of crooks anyway. The more expensive a 
school is, the more crooks it has--I'm not kidding. Anyway, I kept standing next to that 
crazy cannon, looking down at the game and freezing my ass off. Only, I wasn't watching 
the game too much. What I was really hanging around for, I was trying to feel some kind 
of a good-by. I mean I've left schools and places I didn't even know I was leaving them. I 
hate that. I don't care if it's a sad good-by or a bad goodby, but when I leave a place I like 
to know I'm leaving it. If you don't, you feel even worse. 
 I was lucky. All of a sudden I thought of something that helped make me know I 
was getting the hell out. I suddenly remembered this time, in around October, that I and 
Robert Tichener and Paul Campbell were chucking a football around, in front of the 
academic building. They were nice guys, especially Tichener. It was just before dinner 
and it was getting pretty dark out, but we kept chucking the ball around anyway. It kept 
getting darker and darker, and we could hardly see the ball any more, but we didn't want 
to stop doing what we were doing. Finally we had to. This teacher that taught biology, 
Mr. Zambesi, stuck his head out of this window in the academic building and told us to 
go back to the dorm and get ready for dinner. If I get a chance to remember that kind of 
stuff, I can get a good-by when I need one--at least, most of the time I can. As soon as I 
got it, I turned around and started running down the other side of the hill, toward old 
Spencer's house. He didn't live on the campus. He lived on Anthony Wayne Avenue. 
 I ran all the way to the main gate, and then I waited a second till I got my breath. I 
have no wind, if you want to know the truth. I'm quite a heavy smoker, for one thing--that 
is, I used to be. They made me cut it out. Another thing, I grew six and a half inches last 
year. That's also how I practically got t.b. and came out here for all these goddam 
checkups and stuff. I'm pretty healthy, though. 
 Anyway, as soon as I got my breath back I ran across Route 204. It was icy as hell 
and I damn near fell down. I don't even know what I was running for--I guess I just felt 
like it. After I got across the road, I felt like I was sort of disappearing. It was that kind of 
a crazy afternoon, terrifically cold, and no sun out or anything, and you felt like you were 
disappearing every time you crossed a road. 
 Boy, I rang that doorbell fast when I got to old Spencer's house. I was really 
frozen. My ears were hurting and I could hardly move my fingers at all. "C'mon, c'mon," 
I said right out loud, almost, "somebody open the door." Finally old Mrs. Spencer 
opened. it. They didn't have a maid or anything, and they always opened the door 
themselves. They didn't have too much dough. 
 "Holden!" Mrs. Spencer said. "How lovely to see you! Come in, dear! Are you 
frozen to death?" I think she was glad to see me. She liked me. At least, I think she did. 
 Boy, did I get in that house fast. "How are you, Mrs. Spencer?" I said. "How's Mr. 
Spencer?" 
 "Let me take your coat, dear," she said. She didn't hear me ask her how Mr. 
Spencer was. She was sort of deaf. 
 She hung up my coat in the hall closet, and I sort of brushed my hair back with 
my hand. I wear a crew cut quite frequently and I never have to comb it much. "How've 
you been, Mrs. Spencer?" I said again, only louder, so she'd hear me. 
 "I've been just fine, Holden." She closed the closet door. "How have you been?" 
The way she asked me, I knew right away old Spencer'd told her I'd been kicked out. 
 "Fine," I said. "How's Mr. Spencer? He over his grippe yet?" 
 "Over it! Holden, he's behaving like a perfect--I don't know what. . . He's in his 
room, dear. Go right in." 
2 
 They each had their own room and all. They were both around seventy years old, 
or even more than that. They got a bang out of things, though--in a haif-assed way, of 
course. I know that sounds mean to say, but I don't mean it mean. I just mean that I used 
to think about old Spencer quite a lot, and if you thought about him too much, you 
wondered what the heck he was still living for. I mean he was all stooped over, and he 
had very terrible posture, and in class, whenever he dropped a piece of chalk at the 
blackboard, some guy in the first row always had to get up and pick it up and hand it to 
him. That's awful, in my opinion. But if you thought about him just enough and not too 
much, you could figure it out that he wasn't doing too bad for himself. For instance, one 
Sunday when some other guys and I were over there for hot chocolate, he showed us this 
old beat-up Navajo blanket that he and Mrs. Spencer'd bought off some Indian in 
Yellowstone Park. You could tell old Spencer'd got a big bang out of buying it. That's 
what I mean. You take somebody old as hell, like old Spencer, and they can get a big 
bang out of buying a blanket. 
 His door was open, but I sort of knocked on it anyway, just to be polite and all. I 
could see where he was sitting. He was sitting in a big leather chair, all wrapped up in 
that blanket I just told you about. He looked over at me when I knocked. "Who's that?" he 
yelled. "Caulfield? Come in, boy." He was always yelling, outside class. It got on your 
nerves sometimes. 
 The minute I went in, I was sort of sorry I'd come. He was reading the Atlantic 
Monthly, and there were pills and medicine all over the place, and everything smelled 
like Vicks Nose Drops. It was pretty depressing. I'm not too crazy about sick people, 
anyway. What made it even more depressing, old Spencer had on this very sad, ratty old 
bathrobe that he was probably born in or something. I don't much like to see old guys in 
their pajamas and bathrobes anyway. Their bumpy old chests are always showing. And 
their legs. Old guys' legs, at beaches and places, always look so white and unhairy. 
"Hello, sir," I said. "I got your note. Thanks a lot." He'd written me this note asking me to 
stop by and say good-by before vacation started, on account of I wasn't coming back. 
"You didn't have to do all that. I'd have come over to say good-by anyway." 
 "Have a seat there, boy," old Spencer said. He meant the bed. 
 I sat down on it. "How's your grippe, sir?" 
 "M'boy, if I felt any better I'd have to send for the doctor," old Spencer said. That 
knocked him out. He started chuckling like a madman. Then he finally straightened 
himself out and said, "Why aren't you down at the game? I thought this was the day of the 
big game." 
 "It is. I was. Only, I just got back from New York with the fencing team," I said. 
Boy, his bed was like a rock. 
 He started getting serious as hell. I knew he would. "So you're leaving us, eh?" he 
said. 
 "Yes, sir. I guess I am." 
 He started going into this nodding routine. You never saw anybody nod as much 
in your life as old Spencer did. You never knew if he was nodding a lot because he was 
thinking and all, or just because he was a nice old guy that didn't know his ass from his 
elbow. 
 "What did Dr. Thurmer say to you, boy? I understand you had quite a little chat." 
 "Yes, we did. We really did. I was in his office for around two hours, I guess." 
 "What'd he say to you?" 
 "Oh. . . well, about Life being a game and all. And how you should play it 
according to the rules. He was pretty nice about it. I mean he didn't hit the ceiling or 
anything. He just kept talking about Life being a game and all. You know." 
 "Life is a game, boy. Life is a game that one plays according to the rules." 
 "Yes, sir. I know it is. I know it." 
 Game, my ass. Some game. If you get on the side where all the hot-shots are, then 
it's a game, all right--I'll admit that. But if you get on the other side, where there aren't 
any hot-shots, then what's a game about it? Nothing. No game. "Has Dr. Thurmer written 
to your parents yet?" old Spencer asked me. 
 "He said he was going to write them Monday." 
 "Have you yourself communicated with them?" 
 "No, sir, I haven't communicated with them, because I'll probably see them 
Wednesday night when I get home." 
 "And how do you think they'll take the news?" 
 "Well. . . they'll be pretty irritated about it," I said. "They really will. This is about 
the fourth school I've gone to." I shook my head. I shake my head quite a lot. "Boy!" I 
said. I also say "Boy!" quite a lot. Partly because I have a lousy vocabulary and partly 
because I act quite young for my age sometimes. I was sixteen then, and I'm seventeen 
now, and sometimes I act like I'm about thirteen. It's really ironical, because I'm six foot 
two and a half and I have gray hair. I really do. The one side of my head--the right side--
is full of millions of gray hairs. I've had them ever since I was a kid. And yet I still act 
sometimes like I was only about twelve. Everybody says that, especially my father. It's 
partly true, too, but it isn't all true. People always think something's all true. I don't give a 
damn, except that I get bored sometimes when people tell me to act my age. Sometimes I 
act a lot older than I am--I really do--but people never notice it. People never notice 
anything. 
 Old Spencer started nodding again. He also started picking his nose. He made out 
like he was only pinching it, but he was really getting the old thumb right in there. I guess 
he thought it was all right to do because it was only me that was in the room. I didn't care, 
except that it's pretty disgusting to watch somebody pick their nose. 
 Then he said, "I had the privilege of meeting your mother and dad when they had 
their little chat with Dr. Thurmer some weeks ago. They're grand people." 
 "Yes, they are. They're very nice." 
 Grand. There's a word I really hate. It's a phony. I could puke every time I hear it. 
 Then all of a sudden old Spencer looked like he had something very good, 
something sharp as a tack, to say to me. He sat up more in his chair and sort of moved 
around. It was a false alarm, though. All he did was lift the Atlantic Monthly off his lap 
and try to chuck it on the bed, next to me. He missed. It was only about two inches away, 
but he missed anyway. I got up and picked it up and put it down on the bed. All of a 
sudden then, I wanted to get the hell out of the room. I could feel a terrific lecture coming 
on. I didn't mind the idea so much, but I didn't feel like being lectured to and smell Vicks 
Nose Drops and look at old Spencer in his pajamas and bathrobe all at the same time. I 
really didn't. 
 It started, all right. "What's the matter with you, boy?" old Spencer said. He said it 
pretty tough, too, for him. "How many subjects did you carry this term?" 
 "Five, sir." 
 "Five. And how many are you failing in?" 
 "Four." I moved my ass a little bit on the bed. It was the hardest bed I ever sat on. 
"I passed English all right," I said, "because I had all that Beowulf and Lord Randal My 
Son stuff when I was at the Whooton School. I mean I didn't have to do any work in 
English at all hardly, except write compositions once in a while." 
 He wasn't even listening. He hardly ever listened to you when you said 
something. 
 "I flunked you in history because you knew absolutely nothing." 
 "I know that, sir. Boy, I know it. You couldn't help it." 
 "Absolutely nothing," he said over again. That's something that drives me crazy. 
When people say something twice that way, after you admit it the first time. Then he said 
it three times. "But absolutely nothing. I doubt very much if you opened your textbook 
even once the whole term. Did you? Tell the truth, boy." 
 "Well, I sort of glanced through it a couple of times," I told him. I didn't want to 
hurt his feelings. He was mad about history. 
 "You glanced through it, eh?" he said--very sarcastic. "Your, ah, exam paper is 
over there on top of my chiffonier. On top of the pile. Bring it here, please." 
 It was a very dirty trick, but I went over and brought it over to him--I didn't have 
any alternative or anything. Then I sat down on his cement bed again. Boy, you can't 
imagine how sorry I was getting that I'd stopped by to say good-by to him. 
 He started handling my exam paper like it was a turd or something. "We studied 
the Egyptians from November 4th to December 2nd," he said. "You chose to write about 
them for the optional essay question. Would you care to hear what you had to say?" 
 "No, sir, not very much," I said. 
 He read it anyway, though. You can't stop a teacher when they want to do 
something. They just do it. 
 The Egyptians were an ancient race of Caucasians residing in 
 one of the northern sections of Africa. The latter as we all 
 know is the largest continent in the Eastern Hemisphere. 
 I had to sit there and listen to that crap. It certainly was a dirty trick. 
 The Egyptians are extremely interesting to us today for 
 various reasons. Modern science would still like to know what 
 the secret ingredients were that the Egyptians used when they 
 wrapped up dead people so that their faces would not rot for 
 innumerable centuries. This interesting riddle is still quite 
 a challenge to modern science in the twentieth century. 
 He stopped reading and put my paper down. I was beginning to sort of hate him. 
"Your essay, shall we say, ends there," he said in this very sarcastic voice. You wouldn't 
think such an old guy would be so sarcastic and all. "However, you dropped me a little 
note, at the bottom of the page," he said. 
 "I know I did," I said. I said it very fast because I wanted to stop him before he 
started reading that out loud. But you couldn't stop him. He was hot as a firecracker. 
 DEAR MR. SPENCER [he read out loud]. That is all I know about 
 the Egyptians. I can't seem to get very interested in them 
 although your lectures are very interesting. It is all right 
 with me if you flunk me though as I am flunking everything 
 else except English anyway. 
 Respectfully yours, HOLDEN CAULFIELD. 
 He put my goddam paper down then and looked at me like he'd just beaten hell 
out of me in ping-pong or something. I don't think I'll ever forgive him for reading me 
that crap out loud. I wouldn't've read it out loud to him if he'd written it--I really wouldn't. 
In the first place, I'd only written that damn note so that he wouldn't feel too bad about 
flunking me. 
 "Do you blame me for flunking you, boy?" he said. 
 "No, sir! I certainly don't," I said. I wished to hell he'd stop calling me "boy" all 
the time. 
 He tried chucking my exam paper on the bed when he was through with it. Only, 
he missed again, naturally. I had to get up again and pick it up and put it on top of the 
Atlantic Monthly. It's boring to do that every two minutes. 
 "What would you have done in my place?" he said. "Tell the truth, boy." 
 Well, you could see he really felt pretty lousy about flunking me. So I shot the 
bull for a while. I told him I was a real moron, and all that stuff. I told him how I 
would've done exactly the same thing if I'd been in his place, and how most people didn't 
appreciate how tough it is being a teacher. That kind of stuff. The old bull. 
 The funny thing is, though, I was sort of thinking of something else while I shot 
the bull. I live in New York, and I was thinking about the lagoon in Central Park, down 
near Central Park South. I was wondering if it would be frozen over when I got home, 
and if it was, where did the ducks go. I was wondering where the ducks went when the 
lagoon got all icy and frozen over. I wondered if some guy came in a truck and took them 
away to a zoo or something. Or if they just flew away. 
 I'm lucky, though. I mean I could shoot the old bull to old Spencer and think 
about those ducks at the same time. It's funny. You don't have to think too hard when you 
talk to a teacher. All of a sudden, though, he interrupted me while I was shooting the bull. 
He was always interrupting you. 
 "How do you feel about all this, boy? I'd be very interested to know. Very 
interested." 
 "You mean about my flunking out of Pencey and all?" I said. I sort of wished he'd 
cover up his bumpy chest. It wasn't such a beautiful view. 
 "If I'm not mistaken, I believe you also had some difficulty at the Whooton 
School and at Elkton Hills." He didn't say it just sarcastic, but sort of nasty, too. 
 "I didn't have too much difficulty at Elkton Hills," I told him. "I didn't exactly 
flunk out or anything. I just quit, sort of." 
 "Why, may I ask?" 
 "Why? Oh, well it's a long story, sir. I mean it's pretty complicated." I didn't feel 
like going into the whole thing with him. He wouldn't have understood it anyway. It 
wasn't up his alley at all. One of the biggest reasons I left Elkton Hills was because I was 
surrounded by phonies. That's all. They were coming in the goddam window. For 
instance, they had this headmaster, Mr. Haas, that was the phoniest bastard I ever met in 
my life. Ten times worse than old Thurmer. On Sundays, for instance, old Haas went 
around shaking hands with everybody's parents when they drove up to school. He'd be 
charming as hell and all. Except if some boy had little old funny-looking parents. You 
should've seen the way he did with my roommate's parents. I mean if a boy's mother was 
sort of fat or corny-looking or something, and if somebody's father was one of those guys 
that wear those suits with very big shoulders and corny black-and-white shoes, then old 
Hans would just shake hands with them and give them a phony smile and then he'd go 
talk, for maybe a half an hour, with somebody else's parents. I can't stand that
t stuff. It
drives me crazy. It makes me so depressed I go crazy. I hated that goddam Elkton Hills.
 Old Spencer asked me something then, but I didn't hear him. I was thinking about
old Haas. "What, sir?" I said.
 "Do you have any particular qualms about leaving Pencey?"
 "Oh, I have a few qualms, all right. Sure. . . but not too many. Not yet, anyway. I
guess it hasn't really hit me yet. It takes things a while to hit me. All I'm doing right now
is thinking about going home Wednesday. I'm a moron."
 "Do you feel absolutely no concern for your future, boy?"
 "Oh, I feel some concern for my future, all right. Sure. Sure, I do." I thought about
it for a minute. "But not too much, I guess. Not too much, I guess."
 "You will," old Spencer said. "You will, boy. You will when it's too late."
 I didn't like hearing him say that. It made me sound dead or something. It was
very depressing. "I guess I will," I said.
 "I'd like to put some sense in that head of yours, boy. I'm trying to help you. I'm
trying to help you, if I can."
 He really was, too. You could see that. But it was just that we were too much on
opposite sides ot the pole, that's all. "I know you are, sir," I said. "Thanks a lot. No
kidding. I appreciate it. I really do." I got up from the bed then. Boy, I couldn't've sat
there another ten minutes to save my life. "The thing is, though, I have to get going now.
I have quite a bit of equipment at the gym I have to get to take home with me. I really
do." He looked up at me and started nodding again, with this very serious look on his
face. I felt sorry as hell for him, all of a sudden. But I just couldn't hang around there any
longer, the way we were on opposite sides of the pole, and the way he kept missing the
bed whenever he chucked something at it, and his sad old bathrobe with his chest
showing, and that grippy smell of Vicks Nose Drops all over the place. "Look, sir. Don't
worry about me," I said. "I mean it. I'll be all right. I'm just going through a phase right
now. Everybody goes through phases and all, don't they?"
 "I don't know, boy. I don't know."
 I hate it when somebody answers that way. "Sure. Sure, they do," I said. "I mean
it, sir. Please don't worry about me." I sort of put my hand on his shoulder. "Okay?" I
said.
 "Wouldn't you like a cup of hot chocolate before you go? Mrs. Spencer would be-
-"
 "I would, I really would, but the thing is, I have to get going. I have to go right to
the gym. Thanks, though. Thanks a lot, sir."
 Then we shook hands. And all that crap. It made me feel sad as hell, though.
 "I'll drop you a line, sir. Take care of your grippe, now."
 "Good-by, boy."
 After I shut the door and started back to the living room, he yelled something at
me, but I couldn't exactly hear him. I'm pretty sure he yelled "Good luck!" at me,
 I hope to hell not. I'd never yell "Good luck!" at anybody. It sounds terrible, when
you think about it.
3
 I'm the most terrific liar you ever saw in your life. It's awful. If I'm on my way to
the store to buy a magazine, even, and somebody asks me where I'm going, I'm liable to
say I'm going to the opera. It's terrible. So when I told old Spencer I had to go to the gym
and get my equipment and stuff, that was a sheer lie. I don't even keep my goddam
equipment in the gym.
 Where I lived at Pencey, I lived in the Ossenburger Memorial Wing of the new
dorms. It was only for juniors and seniors. I was a junior. My roommate was a senior. It
was named after this guy Ossenburger that went to Pencey. He made a pot of dough in
the undertaking business after he got out of Pencey. What he did, he started these
undertaking parlors all over the country that you could get members of your family
buried for about five bucks apiece. You should see old Ossenburger. He probably just
shoves them in a sack and dumps them in the river. Anyway, he gave Pencey a pile of
dough, and they named our wing alter him. The first football game of the year, he came
up to school in this big goddam Cadillac, and we all had to stand up in the grandstand and
give him a locomotive--that's a cheer. Then, the next morning, in chapel, be made a
speech that lasted about ten hours. He started off with about fifty corny jokes, just to
show us what a regular guy he was. Very big deal. Then he started telling us how he was
never ashamed, when he was in some kind of trouble or something, to get right down his
knees and pray to God. He told us we should always pray to God--talk to Him and all--
wherever we were. He told us we ought to think of Jesus as our buddy and all. He said he
talked to Jesus all the time. Even when he was driving his car. That killed me. I just see
the big phony bastard shifting into first gear and asking Jesus to send him a few more
stiffs. The only good part of his speech was right in the middle of it. He was telling us all
about what a swell guy he was, what a hot-shot and all, then all of a sudden this guy
sitting in the row in front of me, Edgar Marsalla, laid this terrific fart. It was a very crude
thing to do, in chapel and all, but it was also quite amusing. Old Marsalla. He damn near
blew the roof off. Hardly anybody laughed out loud, and old Ossenburger made out like
he didn't even hear it, but old Thurmer, the headmaster, was sitting right next to him on
the rostrum and all, and you could tell he heard it. Boy, was he sore. He didn't say
anything then, but the next night he made us have compulsory study hall in the academic
building and he came up and made a speech. He said that the boy that had created the
disturbance in chapel wasn't fit to go to Pencey. We tried to get old Marsalla to rip off
another one, right while old Thurmer was making his speech, but be wasn't in the right
mood. Anyway, that's where I lived at Pencey. Old Ossenburger Memorial Wing, in the
new dorms.
 It was pretty nice to get back to my room, after I left old Spencer, because
everybody was down at the game, and the heat was on in our room, for a change. It felt
sort of cosy. I took off my coat and my tie and unbuttoned my shirt collar; and then I put
on this hat that I'd bought in New York that morning. It was this red hunting hat, with one
of those very, very long peaks. I saw it in the window of this sports store when we got out
of the subway, just after I noticed I'd lost all the goddam foils. It only cost me a buck.
The way I wore it, I swung the old peak way around to the back--very corny, I'll admit,
but I liked it that way. I looked good in it that way. Then I got this book I was reading
and sat down in my chair. There were two chairs in every room. I had one and my
roommate, Ward Stradlater, had one. The arms were in sad shape, because everybody
was always sitting on them, but they were pretty comfortable chairs.
 The book I was reading was this book I took out of the library by mistake. They
gave me the wrong book, and I didn't notice it till I got back to my room. They gave me
Out of Africa, by Isak Dinesen. I thought it was going to stink, but it didn't. It was a very
good book. I'm quite illiterate, but I read a lot. My favorite author is my brother D.B., and
my next favorite is Ring Lardner. My brother gave me a book by Ring Lardner for my
birthday, just before I went to Pencey. It had these very funny, crazy plays in it, and then
it had this one story about a traffic cop that falls in love with this very cute girl that's
always speeding. Only, he's married, the cop, so be can't marry her or anything. Then this
girl gets killed, because she's always speeding. That story just about killed me. What I
like best is a book that's at least funny once in a while. I read a lot of classical books, like
The Return of the Native and all, and I like them, and I read a lot of war books and
mysteries and all, but they don't knock me out too much. What really knocks me out is a
book that, when you're all done reading it, you wish the author that wrote it was a terrific
friend of yours and you could call him up on the phone whenever you felt like it. That
doesn't happen much, though. I wouldn't mind calling this Isak Dinesen up. And Ring
Lardner, except that D.B. told me he's dead. You take that book Of Human Bondage, by
Somerset Maugham, though. I read it last summer. It's a pretty good book and all, but I
wouldn't want to call Somerset Maugham up. I don't know, He just isn't the kind of guy
I'd want to call up, that's all. I'd rather call old Thomas Hardy up. I like that Eustacia Vye.
 Anyway, I put on my new hat and sat down and started reading that book Out of
Africa. I'd read it already, but I wanted to read certain parts over again. I'd only read
about three pages, though, when I heard somebody coming through the shower curtains.
Even without looking up, I knew right away who it was. It was Robert Ackley, this guy
that roomed right next to me. There was a shower right between every two rooms in our
wing, and about eighty-five times a day old Ackley barged in on me. He was probably the
only guy in the whole dorm, besides me, that wasn't down at the game. He hardly ever
went anywhere. He was a very peculiar guy. He was a senior, and he'd been at Pencey the
whole four years and all, but nobody ever called him anything except "Ackley." Not even
Herb Gale, his own roommate, ever called him "Bob" or even "Ack." If he ever gets
married, his own wife'll probably call him "Ackley." He was one of these very, very tall,
round-shouldered guys--he was about six four--with lousy teeth. The whole time he
roomed next to me, I never even once saw him brush his teeth. They always looked
mossy and awful, and he damn near made you sick if you saw him in the dining room
with his mouth full of mashed potatoes and peas or something. Besides that, he had a lot
of pimples. Not just on his forehead or his chin, like most guys, but all over his whole
face. And not only that, he had a terrible personality. He was also sort of a nasty guy. I
wasn't too crazy about him, to tell you the truth.
 I could feel him standing on the shower ledge, right behind my chair, taking a
look to see if Stradlater was around. He hated Stradlater's guts and he never came in the
room if Stradlater was around. He hated everybody's guts, damn near.
 He came down off the shower ledge and came in the room. "Hi," he said. He
always said it like he was terrifically bored or terrifically tired. He didn't want you to
think he was visiting you or anything. He wanted you to think he'd come in by mistake,
for God's sake.
 "Hi," I said, but I didn't look up from my book. With a guy like Ackley, if you
looked up from your book you were a goner. You were a goner anyway, but not as quick
if you didn't look up right away.
 He started walking around the room, very slow and all, the way he always did,
picking up your personal stuff off your desk and chiffonier. He always picked up your
personal stuff and looked at it. Boy, could he get on your nerves sometimes. "How was
the fencing?" he said. He just wanted me to quit reading and enjoying myself. He didn't
give a damn about the fencing. "We win, or what?" he said.
 "Nobody won," I said. Without looking up, though.
 "What?" he said. He always made you say everything twice.
 "Nobody won," I said. I sneaked a look to see what he was fiddling around with
on my chiffonier. He was looking at this picture of this girl I used to go around with in
New York, Sally Hayes. He must've picked up that goddam picture and looked at it at
least five thousand times since I got it. He always put it back in the wrong place, too,
when he was finished. He did it on purpose. You could tell.
 "Nobody won," he said. "How come?"
 "I left the goddam foils and stuff on the subway." I still didn't look up at him.
 "On the subway, for Chrissake! Ya lost them, ya mean?"
 "We got on the wrong subway. I had to keep getting up to look at a goddam map
on the wall."
 He came over and stood right in my light. "Hey," I said. "I've read this same
sentence about twenty times since you came in."
 Anybody else except Ackley would've taken the goddam hint. Not him, though.
"Think they'll make ya pay for em?" he said.
 "I don't know, and I don't give a damn. How 'bout sitting down or something,
Ackley kid? You're right in my goddam light." He didn't like it when you called him
"Ackley kid." He was always telling me I was a goddam kid, because I was sixteen and
he was eighteen. It drove him mad when I called him "Ackley kid."
 He kept standing there. He was exactly the kind of a guy that wouldn't get out of
your light when you asked him to. He'd do it, finally, but it took him a lot longer if you
asked him to. "What the hellya reading?" he said.
 "Goddam book."
 He shoved my book back with his hand so that he could see the name of it. "Any
good?" he said.
 "This sentence I'm reading is terrific." I can be quite sarcastic when I'm in the
mood. He didn't get It, though. He started walking around the room again, picking up all
my personal stuff, and Stradlater's. Finally, I put my book down on the floor. You
couldn't read anything with a guy like Ackley around. It was impossible.
 I slid way the hell down in my chair and watched old Ackley making himself at
home. I was feeling sort of tired from the trip to New York and all, and I started yawning.
Then I started horsing around a little bit. Sometimes I horse around quite a lot, just to
keep from getting bored. What I did was, I pulled the old peak of my hunting hat around
to the front, then pulled it way down over my eyes. That way, I couldn't see a goddam
thing. "I think I'm going blind," I said in this very hoarse voice. "Mother darling,
everything's getting so dark in here."
 "You're nuts. I swear to God," Ackley said.
 "Mother darling, give me your hand, Why won't you give me your hand?"
 "For Chrissake, grow up."
 I started groping around in front of me, like a blind guy, but without getting up or
anything. I kept saying, "Mother darling, why won't you give me your hand?" I was only
horsing around, naturally. That stuff gives me a bang sometimes. Besides, I know it
annoyed hell out of old Ackley. He always brought out the old sadist in me. I was pretty
sadistic with him quite often. Finally, I quit, though. I pulled the peak around to the back
again, and relaxed.
 "Who belongsa this?" Ackley said. He was holding my roommate's knee
supporter up to show me. That guy Ackley'd pick up anything. He'd even pick up your
jock strap or something. I told him it was Stradlater's. So he chucked it on Stradlater's
bed. He got it off Stradlater's chiffonier, so he chucked it on the bed.
 He came over and sat down on the arm of Stradlater's chair. He never sat down in
a chair. Just always on the arm. "Where the hellja get that hat?" he said.
 "New York."
 "How much?"
 "A buck."
 "You got robbed." He started cleaning his goddam fingernails with the end of a
match. He was always cleaning his fingernails. It was funny, in a way. His teeth were
always mossy-looking, and his ears were always dirty as hell, but he was always cleaning
his fingernails. I guess he thought that made him a very neat guy. He took another look at
my hat while he was cleaning them. "Up home we wear a hat like that to shoot deer in,
for Chrissake," he said. "That's a deer shooting hat."
 "Like hell it is." I took it off and looked at it. I sort of closed one eye, like I was
taking aim at it. "This is a people shooting hat," I said. "I shoot people in this hat."
 "Your folks know you got kicked out yet?"
 "Nope."
 "Where the hell's Stradlater at, anyway?"
 "Down at the game. He's got a date." I yawned. I was yawning all over the place.
For one thing, the room was too damn hot. It made you sleepy. At Pencey, you either
froze to death or died of the heat.